# Greetings App

This is a simple Spring Boot application to manage People entities an generate personalized greetings using an external LLM.  
The project contains the Java core code and a simple JavaScript + Html page for a UI demo.

## Architecture overview
- Rest controller(PeopleController.java) to expose basic CRUD operations for the People entity and to generate a 
personalized greetings message. The controller is decorated with Swagger annotations for a simple API documentation
which can be accessed through the following link: http://localhost:8080/swagger-ui/index.html
- Business Logic is handled by the PeopleService interface, and it's implementation the PeopleServiceImpl. This contains 
the core business logic with validation. It interacts with the data access layer and the external LLM service.
- Data Access is handled by the PeopleRepository providing the CRUD database operations for the People entity.
- External LLM service integration is done by the LLMWrapperService, and currently it's only implementation 
LLMWrapperServiceImpl to communicate with a GPT4ALL locally run LLM model using REST calls.
- Using a GlobalException handler handling the custom exceptions and return a readable and consistent of error reports
- The frontend is a simple JavaScript + Html code generated by Gemini

## Assumptions
- If a real database was used instead if the in-memory H2 there should be a caching tool be available like REDIS to 
prevent unnecessary calls to the database
- Currently, enabled the cors for localhost access and for the JavaScript UI.
- Added pagination when listing the people to only access a handful of records at a time
- For this demo app not using Factory pattern for LLM service implementation as there is currently the GPT4ALL is supported.
- One application.properties used as there is no dev/prod deployment of this application.
- The endpoints are not secured because there is no JWT/OAuth authentication usage.


## Building process
- Prerequisites
  - The code is using Java 17 and maven for dependency handling
  - For the LLM download the GTP4ALL from here: https://www.nomic.ai/gpt4all. Then download the following LLM: 
  **Llama 3 8B Instruct**. Check the following in the GPT4ALL application Settings view: **Enable Local API Server**
- Building
  - in the project folder run the following: **mvn clean install**
- Running
  - **mvn spring-boot:run**
  - The application should be up and running
  - Open the src/main/UI/base_ui.html to test the application using UI
- Postman
  - Attached a collection to try out the endpoints in Postman with the following name: Ip_Camp.postman_collection.json

## Attachments
- In the /assets folder can be found several photos of the UI.
